Synthetics documentation (#3788)
DataDog/documentation: content/synthetics/uptime_check.md

---
title: Uptime Check
kind: documentation
beta: true
description: Simulate and monitor HTTP requests from specific locations
further_reading:
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/introducing-synthetic-monitoring/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Introducing Datadog Synthetics"
- link: "synthetics/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Manage your checks"
- link: "synthetics/browser_check"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure a Browser Check"
---

## Overview

> Uptime checks are HTTP requests (GET, POST, PUT, etc.) executed by Datadog to your web properties or application endpoints at configurable periodic intervals from multiple locations around the world. These checks verify not only that your applications are up and responding to requests, but that any conditions you define are met, such as response time, HTTP response code, and header or body contents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Uptime Checks are HTTP requests (GET, POST, PUT, etc.) executed by Datadog to your web properties or application endpoints at configurable periodic intervals from multiple locations around the world. These Checks verify not only that your applications are up and responding to requests, but that any conditions you define are met, such as response time, HTTP response code, and header or body contents.
```

## Configuration
### Request

Define the request you want to be executed by Datadog:

{{< img src="synthetics/uptime_check/uptime_check_make_request.png" alt="Uptime check make request" responsive="true" style="width:80%;">}}

> 1. Choose the `Method` and `URL` to query. Available `Method` are:

Reviewer: Available methods - plural. But it's also a field name. Hmm. I'm not sure what to do there. 🤷‍♂️

Author: let's keep the parameter name.

Reviewer 2: Available values for `Method` are:

    * GET
    * POST
    * PATCH
    * PUT
    * DELETE
    * OPTIONS

> 2. Optional - Click on **Advanced options** to enrich your request with any custom Request Headers, Authentication credentials, body content, or cookies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Optionally, xlick on **Advanced options** to enrich your request with custom Request Headers, Authentication credentials, body content, or cookies.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Optional - Click on **Advanced options** to enrich your request with any custom request headers, authentication credentials, body content, or cookies.
```
?

> 3. Give a Name to your Uptime Check.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Name your Uptime Check.
```

> 4. Optional - Add tags to filter your Uptime Check in the [Synthetics page][1].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Optionally, add tags to filter your Uptime Check in the [Synthetics page][1].
```

5. Pick-up locations to run the test from, available locations are:
    * Frankfurt (Request made from an AWS Datacenter)
    * Tokyo (Request made from an AWS Datacenter)

> 6. Choose a Check frequency between 1 run/min to 1 run/week.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Choose a Check frequency between "1 run per minute" to "1 run per week".
```

This is different from https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/3788/files#diff-0f7389d1d699727140bc0df31ce09ac1R36 - is that on purpose? Should they be the same?

Author: yup, uptime checks can be executed faster since it's "just" a ping and a check. Where a browser check scenario can potentially be really "long"

> 7. Finish by clicking on **Test URL** to try out the request configuration, you should see a Response Preview Showing up in the right side of your Screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Finish by clicking on **Test URL** to try out the request configuration. You should see a Response Preview show up in the right side of your screen.
```

Is "response preview" a proper name? If not, no caps.

### Validation

> When running an Uptime check, define its associated assertions that should be monitored by Datadog. An Assertion is defined by a Content, a comparator, and a value.

Reviewer: I'm not entirely sure what to suggest here, but this doesn't parse.

* Do the assertions need to be defined, or are they optional? In either case that needs to be explicit.
* Is "assertion" a proper name? If not, no caps.
* "a Content"? Do you mean "a content block", or just "content", or something else?

Author: Assertions are a functionality name for Datadog, and so should b capitalised. at least one is mandatory.

I renamed content into parameter

| Content       | Comparators                | Value type |
| --------      | ---------                  | --------   |
| Status Code   | `is`, `is not`             | Integer    |
| Response time | `less than`                | Integer    |

> | Headers       | `is`, `is not`, `contains` | Strings    |

Reviewer 3: We are soon going to add a `matches` comparator for the `body` parameter, the value will be pattern as well (regex) - not sure if it's better to add it now or when it's in prod.

> If you define an assertion on the `Headers` content, define your headers name and its associated value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you define an assertion on the content of `Headers`, you must define the headers name and the associated value.
```

I'm _guessing_ that this is mandatory…

> Click on **Add new assertion** to add up to 10 assertions for your uptime check. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click on **Add new assertion** to add up to ten assertions for your Uptime Check. 
```

Rendering numbers in English is weird, but a basic rule is that _small_ numbers should be written out. 😄 Also, I'm guessing that Uptime needs to be capitalised, but y'all are a better judge…

> **Note**: If you clicked on **Test URL** basic assertions are automatically filled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: If you clicked on **Test URL**, then the basic assertions are automatically filled:
```

{{< img src="synthetics/uptime_check/assertion.png" alt="Assertions" responsive="true" style="width:80%;">}}

### Notifications

> A notification is sent if at least one of the assertion defined is failing, to configure your notifications:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A notification is sent if at least one of the assertion fails. To configure notifications:
```

1. Select users and/or [services][2] to send the notifications to.

> 2. Enter a **message** for the Uptime Check. This field allows standard [Markdown formatting][3]. Notifications message include the **message** defined in this section and information about which assertion failed and why.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Enter a **message** for the Uptime Check. This field allows standard [Markdown formatting][3]. Notification messages include the **message** defined in this section and information about which assertion failed and why.
```

3. Click **Save** to save your Uptime check.

Notifications example:

{{< img src="synthetics/uptime_check/uptime_check_notifications.png" alt="Assertions" responsive="true" style="width:80%;">}}

> 

Reviewer 3: Not sure where to put that, but are we going to add sthg about the metrics generated by the checks somewhere? For reference: [code to generate browser checks metrics](https://github.com/DataDog/dogweb/blob/prod/dogweb/model/synthetics/browser/metrics.py), [code to generate uptime checks metrics](https://github.com/DataDog/dogweb/blob/prod/dogweb/model/synthetics/synthetics_metrics.py)

Author: I think it's a little bit too early to document this, but moving forward we might use the same logic as for the APM section: https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/getting_further/metrics_namespace/

---
title: Uptime Check
kind: documentation
beta: true
description: Simulate and monitor HTTP requests from specific locations
further_reading:
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/introducing-synthetic-monitoring/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Introducing Datadog Synthetics"
- link: "synthetics/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Manage your checks"
---

## Overview

Uptime Checks are HTTP requests (GET, POST, PUT, etc.) executed by Datadog to your web properties or application endpoints at configurable periodic intervals from multiple locations around the world. These Checks verify not only that your applications are up and responding to requests, but that any conditions you define are met, such as response time, HTTP response code, and header or body contents.

## Configuration
### Request

Define the request you want to be executed by Datadog:

{{< img src="synthetics/uptime_check/uptime_check_make_request.png" alt="Uptime Check make request" responsive="true" style="width:80%;">}}

1. Choose the `Method` and `URL` to query. Available `Method` are:
    * GET
    * POST
    * PATCH
    * PUT
    * DELETE
    * OPTIONS

> 2. Optionally, click on **Advanced options** to enrich your request with custom Request Headers, Authentication credentials, body content, or cookies.

Reviewer 4: Strange mix of capitalization?

3. Name your Uptime Check.
4. Optionally, add tags to filter your Uptime Check in the [Synthetics page][1].

5. Pick-up locations to run the test from, available locations are:
    * Frankfurt (Request made from an AWS Datacenter)
    * Tokyo (Request made from an AWS Datacenter)

6. Choose a Check frequency between "1 run per minute" to "1 run per week".
7. Finish by clicking on **Test URL** to try out the request configuration. You should see a response preview show up in the right side of your screen.

### Validation

When running an Uptime Check, you must define at least one Assertions that should be monitored by Datadog. An Assertion is defined by a parameter, a comparator, and a value.

| Parameter     | Comparators                | Value type                         |
| --------      | ---------                  | --------                           |
| Status Code   | `is`, `is not`             | Integer                            |
| Response time | `less than`                | Integer                            |
| Headers       | `is`, `is not`, `contains` | Strings                            |

> | body          | `contains`                 | Strings ([regex are supported][4]) |

Reviewer 4: `body` comparators are `is`, `is not` and `contains`. And like `Headers` the value type is more:
- for `is (not)` always a string
- for `contains` always a regex

Side note: why is `body` not capitalized?

If you define an assertion on the content of `Headers`, you must define the headers name and the associated value.

> Click on **Add new assertion** to add up to ten assertions for your Uptime Check. 

Reviewer 4: Technically the limit is `100`, though the interface is quite ugly at this point so I'm not sure we want to document this.

Author: if someone have a use-case for 100 assertions.. or has the patience to set them up he might reach out to SE team directly.

Reviewer 5: We actually do want to limit to 10, just to be on the safe side.

**Note**: If you clicked on **Test URL**, then the basic Assertions are automatically filled:

{{< img src="synthetics/uptime_check/assertion.png" alt="Assertions" responsive="true" style="width:80%;">}}

Use the **Test URL** response to quickly add headers from the test response as one of the Uptime Check assertions:

{{< img src="synthetics/uptime_check/assertion_setup.gif" alt="Assertions" responsive="true" style="width:80%;">}}

### Notifications

A notification is sent if at least one of the Assertion fails. To configure notifications:

> 1. Select users and/or [services][2] to send the notifications to.

Reviewer 4: Not sure but it may worth to explain that this step is just to help putting the users / services into the message below, but the recipients / message can still be edited manually?

---
title: Uptime Check
kind: documentation
beta: true
description: Simulate and monitor HTTP requests from specific locations
further_reading:
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/introducing-synthetic-monitoring/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Introducing Datadog Synthetics"
- link: "synthetics/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Manage your checks"
---

> <div class="alert alert-warning">Synthetics is currently in beta for the Datadog US Region. To request access complete the <a href="https://app.datadoghq.com/synthetics/beta">Datadog Synthetics Request form</a>.</div>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-warning">Synthetics is in beta for the Datadog US Region. To request access, complete the <a href="https://app.datadoghq.com/synthetics/beta">Datadog Synthetics request form</a>.</div>
```

## Overview

> Uptime Checks are HTTP requests (GET, POST, PUT, etc.) executed by Datadog to your web properties or application endpoints at configurable periodic intervals from multiple locations around the world. These Checks verify not only that your applications are up and responding to requests, but that any conditions you define are met, such as response time, HTTP response code, and header or body contents.

Reviewer 6: is properties the right word here?

Reviewer 6: "These Checks" -> "These checks"

Reviewer 6: "These Checks verify not only that your applications are up and responding to requests, but that any conditions you define are met, such as response time, HTTP response code, and header or body contents."

"These checks verify that your applications are responding to requests and verify that they meet any conditions you define, such as response time, HTTP response code, and header or body contents."

> Uptime Checks are HTTP requests (GET, POST, PUT, etc.) executed by Datadog to your web properties or application endpoints at configurable periodic intervals from multiple locations around the world. These checks verify that your applications are responding to requests and verify that they meet any conditions you define, such as response time, HTTP response code, and header or body contents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Uptime Checks are HTTP requests (GET, POST, PUT, etc.) executed by Datadog to your web properties or application endpoints at configurable periodic intervals from multiple locations around the world. These checks verify that your applications are both responding to requests and meeting any conditions you define—such as response time, HTTP response code, and header or body contents.
```
just breaking things up with punctuation for better readability

## Configuration
### Request

Define the request you want to be executed by Datadog:

{{< img src="synthetics/uptime_check/uptime_check_make_request.png" alt="Uptime Check make request" responsive="true" style="width:80%;">}}

1. Choose the `Method` and `URL` to query. Available `Method` are:
    * GET
    * POST
    * PATCH
    * PUT
    * DELETE
    * OPTIONS

> 2. Optionally, click on **Advanced options** to enrich your request with custom Request Headers, Authentication credentials, Body content, or Cookies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Optionally, click on **Advanced options** to enrich your request with custom request headers, authentication credentials, body content, or cookies.
```

3. Name your Uptime Check.
4. Optionally, add tags to filter your Uptime Check in the [Synthetics page][1].

> 5. Pick-up locations to run the test from, available locations are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Pick locations to run the test from. Available locations are:
```

    * Frankfurt (Request made from an AWS Datacenter)
    * Tokyo (Request made from an AWS Datacenter)

> 6. Choose a Check frequency between "1 run per minute" to "1 run per week".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Choose a Check frequency between "1 run per minute" and "1 run per week".
```

7. Finish by clicking on **Test URL** to try out the request configuration. You should see a response preview show up in the right side of your screen.

### Validation

> When running an Uptime Check, you must define at least one Assertion that should be monitored by Datadog. An Assertion is defined by a parameter, a comparator, and a value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When running an Uptime Check, you must define at least one assertion that should be monitored by Datadog. An assertion is defined by a parameter, a comparator, and a value.
```

I'd really like to not have a new common noun we need to capitalize.

> When running an Uptime Check, you must define at least one Assertions that should be monitored by Datadog. An Assertion is defined by a parameter, a comparator, and a value.

Reviewer 5: `at least one assertion`, without the `s`?

> | Parameter     | Comparators                | Value type                                                       |

Reviewer 5: This table is going to change soon, but we can keep it like that for now.

| --------      | ---------                  | --------                                                         |
| Status Code   | `is`, `is not`             | Integer                                                          |
| Response time | `less than`                | Integer                                                          |
| Headers       | `is`, `is not`, `contains` | for `is`/`is not`: String <br>for `contains`: [RegexStrings][2]  |
| Body          | `is`, `is not`, `contains` | for `is`/`is not`: String <br> for `contains`: [RegexStrings][2] |

If you define an assertion on the content of `Headers`, you must define the headers name and the associated value.

Click on **Add new assertion** to add up to 10 assertions for your Uptime Check. 

> **Note**: If you clicked on **Test URL**, then the basic Assertions are automatically filled:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: If you clicked on **Test URL**, then the basic assertions are automatically filled:
```

{{< img src="synthetics/uptime_check/assertion.png" alt="Assertions" responsive="true" style="width:80%;">}}

> Use the **Test URL** response to quickly add headers from the test response as one of the Uptime Check assertions:

Reviewer 5: You can also click on the status code and the response time, by the way.

> Use the **Test URL** response to quickly add Status Code, Response Time or Headers from the test response as one of the Uptime Check assertions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the **Test URL** response to quickly add status code, response time or headers from the test response as one of the Uptime Check assertions:
```

{{< img src="synthetics/uptime_check/assertion_setup.gif" alt="Assertions" responsive="true" style="width:80%;">}}

### Notifications

> A notification is sent if at least one of the Assertion fails. To configure notifications:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A notification is sent if at least one of the assertions fails. To configure notifications:
```
